So we left off by creating a new catch table and it said queery OK.
But the question is how do we know that it works.
How do we know that it did what we wanted it to do.
So there's a couple of options.
The first come and I'll show you is pretty straightforward.
Show tables very similar to show databases.
It just is going to show you the current tables in your database so we can try that.
Now Inkheart 9 will do show tables just like that and it tells us tables and cat app.
There is one called cats.
So that's great.
It tells us that there is a cat table but that's pretty much it doesn't say anything about the contents
of that table what are the different columns in it.
Which brings us to our next command which is again using Show show columns from a table name.
So in this case we would say show columns from cat.
So let's try it out now.
And as you can see we get some nice little table back here that says we've got to field name and age
name is have our char with 100 limit and age is an integer.
And don't worry about this 11 for now.
Then we've got some other data that we're also not going to worry about because we're going to talk
quite a bit about it in the next section.
But there are some other categories here that we're just going to ignore.
But this is what we want name for our age and perfect.
One other thing I'll show you is that you can use a shorter version.
Technically these are slightly slightly different commands but used in this context.
There is no difference.
So we can use describe that DGSE a table name.
And that's my preference.
It's shorter easier to remember.
So let's try that out describe cats.
You can see get the exact same printout.
So I did say that you could use them differently in a more advanced setting where you can basically
pass in some other things to describe.
So anyways it doesn't really matter.
But I just want you to know they're not exactly identical.
It's not like one is a shortcut for the other.
But they do the same thing in this context.
All right.
So this video was pretty quick.
It was just about kind of testing and making sure that when you create a table it's created accurately
and that you can one tell that the table is there using show tables.
But more importantly see the actual columns in that table.
Using these two commands.